
*****
Biographical Essay
This short essay should describe some of the major events in your life. 
You should discuss where you were born, your parents, brothers, sisters and other important figures who have shaped the person you have become.
*****

I don’t know my father. I was just three months old when he last held me in his arms.
My mother told me that the night before his last flight he held me tightly as if saying goodbye and then walked alongside the Muren River for hours. 

I grew up listening to tales about his piloting, wrestling, singing and painting talents and his yellow biplane.
Every time when I saw an airplane on the sky of my little town of northern part of Mongolia I said to myself “wow, biplane!” 
I often dreamt of being in the crew of that magic flying machine with its characteristic sound of summer grasshoppers on the steppe. 

Afterwards I learnt that the strongest and most magic machine I loved had had taken my father from me into the darkness. 
At that very time my dream has changed. I wanted to become a man who helps deliver safe planes 
so that other pilots will always return home from their flights. Yes, I still dream of it.

The first book I remember was “The Secret History of Mongols.” Actually it was a long, ancient historical book about Chinggis Khaan’s life, 
but my mother made me believe that it was the most wonderful fairytale. 

I was just three or so when my mother began reading this book to me and it took several years for her to read the whole book to me several times. 
When I was around nine she asked “What is your dream, son?” I was not brave enough to tell her what I dreamed of. 

Then she said “My son, see, Chinggis Khaan was already dreaming of building the world’s biggest empire when he was only nine. 
Never be afraid of dreaming big!” My mother’s words inspired me then and inspire me still.

I was anxious to learn more of science when I reached the age of 12. 
I was studying at the school #40, the closest school to my home. 
It was an ordinary school situated in crowded high-rise Soviet era residential area of our small apartment in Bayangol district, Ulaanbaatar. 

One day my classmates and I learned of an upcoming contest to select pupils for the school #11 
that was famous for its specialization on mathematics and physics. 
The contest cost the equivalent of five US dollars to enter. 
I told my mother I wished to compete for a place in the incoming 
class and she happily came up with the entrance fee. The contest was quite difficult, 
lasting two days and ending with the selection of 70 fifth-graders out of 600 applicants. 

I was not at the top of the list, but I passed the rigorous entrance examination and 
entered that school despite coming from a very modest grammar school.
My mother’s worry was compounded by my success. 

We did not have a car and the bus stop was not close. 
I had to run quite far to reach an available bus. 
It took me nearly an hour commute time between my new school and home. 
During winter when darkness comes by 4PM, the air temperature routinely drops to minus 30 centigrade (22 below zero Fahrenheit, 
and I had to pass through violent neighborhoods), it turned out to be one of the toughest times of my life. 
But the teachers and classes I had in that school inspired me to achieve. I was a greedy learner in all my science classes, especially physics.

In 2003, I happened to live in California several months while accompanying my mother during her graduate. 
I saw the NASA shuttle station and an American Air Force show for the first time. 
I attended a Foresight Institute seminar on fundamentals of nanotechnology. 

It was really special experience to be in the United States. 
Before I came to the U.S, I had only a vague dream about 
my future and collected excellent grades in physics in hopes of future achievements. 

However, after I saw NASA, and after I touched the amazing technology world of Silicon Valley 
it seemed to me that my bold dreams of future achievement were attainable. 

Once more, my mother brought to me a new book as my birthday gift. 
It was called “How Stuff Works.” Now as 
I write my essay on my computer, I can see this book on my desk. 

I enjoy reading about new technologies. 
I like analyzing how things work. I like dreaming of making new technologies, 
especially for making planes safe.

Finally, I will always want to create safe devices for airplanes. 
That has been my dream since the day 
I learnt that my father whom I never knew and will never see died 
in an air crash when he was just twenty-two.